Next.XP 2.0.0 release (#678)
enonic/nextxp-demo: docs/i18n.adoc

. **Create a new project** in Content Studio by clicking on the `Settings` cog icon, on the left-hand side of the grid. You will be presented with the currently available projects:
+
image:content-studio-settings.png[title="Project list",width=1024px]
+
Click `New...` button, and select type `Layer`. Then choose the `Movie DB` project as the parent
+
image:content-studio-create-layer.png[title="Layered project type",width=1024px]
+
Fill in the rest of the form, using the following values:
+
* *Name*: `Film DB`
* *Identifier*: `moviedb-no`
* *Language*: `norsk (no)`
* *Access mode*: `Public`
* Other fields may be skipped
+
After saving and closing the wizard, the new project should appear in the list.
+
. *Verify the new layer* by going back to the content list (via the pencil icon), and then switching context using the context selector in the top bar.
+
After switching context, you should see the following:
+
image:content-studio-filmdb.png[title="Film DB project",width=1024px]

== Task: Set up i18n in Next.js

Next, let's turn on multi-language support in Next.js.

> . Start by activating Next.js' multilanguage support by adding a few lintes to the `next.config.js` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Start by activating Next.js' multilanguage support by adding a few lines to the `next.config.js` file:
```

+
.next.config.js
[source,JSON]
----
module.exports = {
    // ...
    i18n: {
        locales: ['en', 'no'],
        defaultLocale: 'en'
    }
    // ...
}
----
+
NOTE: The defaultLocale is the one that will be used to serve content on your domain root `/`, others will be available on /no etc.
+
. *Configure the Enonic adapter*, by specifying which content project to use for each specific locale:
+
..env
[source,Properties]
----
// ...
ENONIC_PROJECTS=moviedb/hmdb,no:moviedb-no/hmdb
// ...
----
+
Let's break down the syntax.
+
For each comma separated entry, you will find the following pattern: `<locale>:<repository>/<sitekey>`.
From the example above `no:moviedb-no/hmdb`.
+

> The first entry in the list may skip the locale.
> As it will map to the `defaultLocale` specified in `next.config.js` earlier.
> In our case,`en`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first entry in the list may skip the locale, as it will map to the `defaultLocale` specified in `next.config.js` earlier (in our case, `en`).
```

== Task: Translate and publish

As long as your preview configuration was working before you started, Content Studio should automatically be able to detect the right locale for each project.

NOTE: You may need to restart/rebuild your Next.js server for the changes to be picked up.

. In Content Studio, *Switch editing context* to the `Film DB` project by toggling in the top left corner of Content Studio.
+
Content Studio should automatically be able to detect the correct Next.js locale for the project. Select an item, and you should get a preview.
+
. *Translate the site content* by selecting the site content, then click `localize` (rather than edit..). This effectively takes you to the edit form. You may now show off your skills while translating the page to Norwegian.
+
Once finished, click `Mark as Ready` and proceed to publish the entire site structure.
+
[TIP]
====
*Publish the entire tree* by selecting the tree icon in the publishing wizard.
image:content-studio-mark-as-ready.png[title="Click tree icon to include all children",width=819px]

====
+
. **Verify that your front-end is working**
+

> Finally. By adding `/no` i.e. `localhost:4242/no` to the URL of your Next.js server, you should now see the published content from the Norwegian project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, by adding `/no` (i.e. `localhost:4242/no`) to the URL of your Next.js server you should now see the published content from the Norwegian project.
```

== Multi front-end setup

In some cases, you may prefer a setup where each language/market is served by a separate Next.js front-end, or you may simply have different sites accessing the same Enonic instance.

> Setting up Next.js to do this is just like handling a single language. For Content Studio preview to know which Next.js server to use, means some additional configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up Next.js to do this is just like handling a single language. To enable Content Studio preview to know which Next.js server to use, some additional configuration will be required.
```

. *Update the Next.xp configuration file* for your Enonic installation by adding multiple entries:
+

> NOTE: The sandbox configuration files are located in the sandbox home directory, located in your users home directory at `.enonic/sandboxes/<your-sandbox-name>/home/config`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The sandbox configuration files are located in the sandbox' home directory inside your user's root directory at `.enonic/sandboxes/<your-sandbox-name>/home/config`. 
```

+
.com.enonic.app.nextxp.cfg
[source,properties]
----
# uncomment to override default values
# nextjs.default.secret=yourSecret
# nextjs.default.url=http://127.0.0.1:4242
#
# config 'someName'
nextjs.someName.secret=yourSecret
nextjs.someName.url=https://your.next-site.com
#
# config 'anotherName'
nextjs.anotherName.secret=yourOtherSecret
nextjs.anotherName.url=https://your.other-next-site.com
# ...
----
+

> . *Assign the configuration to your site* by click the pencil icon next to the `Next.XP` app name in the site form, and selecting it from the list of named configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. *Assign the configuration to your site* by clicking the pencil icon next to the `Next.XP` app name in the site form, and selecting it from the list of named configurations:
```

+
image:content-studio-configure-nextxp.png[title="Form with fields for server url and nextjs token",width=771px]

== Accessing locale in views

Here are some insight on how to make further use of locales in your Next.js project.

When using `getStaticProps` or `getServerSideProps`, `locale` is accessible through the `Context`:

[source,TypeScript]
----
import {Context,FetchContentResult} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter';
import {GetStaticPropsResult} from 'next';

export async function getStaticProps(context: Context): Promise<GetStaticPropsResult<FetchContentResult>> {
    const locale = context.locale;
    const defaultLocale = context.defaultLocale;
}
----

> Additionally, `MetaData` object available in every view, contains `locale` and `defaultLocale` along with other runtime data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, `MetaData` object (available in every view) contains `locale` and `defaultLocale` along with other runtime data:
```
